post-merge update: glossary (#7592)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/glossary/index.md

### attestation {#attestation}

> A validator vote for [block](#block). Validators must attest to blocks, signaling that they agree with the state proposed by the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A validator vote for a [block](#block). Validators must attest to blocks, signalling that they agree with the state proposed by the block.
```

### block {#block}

> A block is a unit of information that is created by a [block proposer](#block-proposer) and sent to other nodes over the peer-to-peer network. Blocks include lists of transactions to execute as well as consensus-related information that allow [validators](#validator) to check the information in the block is valid. This allows nodes to update their view of the state of Ethereum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A block is a unit of information created by a [block proposer](#block-proposer) and sent to other nodes over the peer-to-peer network. Blocks include lists of transactions to execute and consensus-related information that allow [validators](#validator) to check the information in the block is valid. This allows nodes to update their view of the state of Ethereum.
```

### block header {#block-header}

The block header is a collection of metadata about a block and a summary of the transactions included in the execution payload.

### block propagation {#block-propagation}

The process of transmitting a confirmed block to all other nodes in the network.

### block proposer {#block-proposer}

The specific validator chosen to create a block in a particular [slot](#slot).

### block reward {#block-reward}

The amount of ether rewarded to the producer of a new valid block.

### block status {#block-status}

> The states that a block can exist in. The possible states include:
> 
> - proposed: the block was proposed by a validator
> - scheduled: validators are currently submitting data
> - missed/skipped: the proposer did not propose a block within the eligible time frame.
> - orphaned: the block was reorg'd out by the fork chocie mechanism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The states that a block can exist in. The possible states include:

- proposed: the block was proposed by a validator
- scheduled: validators are currently submitting data
- missed/skipped: the proposer did not propose a block within the eligible time frame.
- orphaned: the block was reorg'd out by the fork choice mechanism
```

Reviewer: > _'reorg'd'_

We shouldn't assume people know this shorthand IMO.

### block time {#block-time}

The time interval between blocks being added to the blockchain.

### block validation {#block-validation}

> Checking that a new block contains valid transactions and that it builds on the heaviest historical chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of checking that a new block contains valid transactions and that it builds on the heaviest historical chain.
```

### blockchain {#blockchain}

> A sequence of [blocks](#block), each linking to its predecessor all the way to the [genesis block](#genesis-block). The integrity of the blockchain is crypto-economically secured using a proof-of-stake based consensus mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sequence of [blocks](#block), each linking to its predecessor all the way to the [genesis block](#genesis-block). The integrity of the blockchain is crypto-economically secured using a proof-of-stake-based consensus mechanism.
```

### difficulty {#difficulty}

A network-wide setting that controls how much computation is required to produce a valid nonce in [proof-of-work](#pow) networks.

### difficulty bomb {#difficulty-bomb}

> Planned exponential increase in [proof-of-work](#pow) [difficulty](#difficulty) setting that was designed to motivate the transition to [proof-of-stake](#pos), reducing the chances of a [fork](#hard-fork). This was only a feature of Ethereum before it transitioned to proof-of-stake.

Reviewer: Wording feels kinda awkward here.

```suggestion
Planned exponential increase in [proof-of-work](#pow) [difficulty](#difficulty) setting that was designed to motivate the transition to [proof-of-stake](#pos), reducing the chances of a [fork](#hard-fork). The difficulty bomb was deprecated at [The Merge](/upgrades/merge/).
```

Or maybe 'remove' is perhaps more accurate?

```suggestion
Planned exponential increase in [proof-of-work](#pow) [difficulty](#difficulty) setting that was designed to motivate the transition to [proof-of-stake](#pos), reducing the chances of a [fork](#hard-fork). The difficulty bomb was removed at [The Merge](/upgrades/merge/).
```

### epoch {#epoch}

> A period of 32 [slots](#slot) (6.4 minutes). [Validator](#validator) [committees](#committee) are shuffled every epoch for security reasons. There's an opportunity at each epoch for the chain to be [finalized](#finality).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A period of 32 [slots](#slot) (6.4 minutes). [Validator](#validator) [committees](#committee) are shuffled every epoch for security reasons. Each epoch has an opportunity for the chain to be [finalized](#finality).
```

### execution client {#execution-client}

> Execution clients (f.k.a. "Eth1 clients"), such as Besu, Erigon, go-ethereum, Nethermind, are tasked with processing and broadcasting transactions, as well as with managing Ethereum's state. They run the computations for each transaction in the [Ethereum Virtual Machine](#evm) to ensure that the rules of the protocol are followed.

Reviewer: I've never seen f.k.a used before (assuming it's formerly known as?). 

```suggestion
Execution clients (formerly known as "Eth1 clients"), such as Besu, Erigon, go-ethereum, Nethermind, are tasked with processing and broadcasting transactions and managing Ethereum's state. They run the computations for each transaction in the [Ethereum Virtual Machine](#evm) to ensure that the rules of the protocol are followed.
```

Reviewer: Also not keen on naming specific clients here but not strongly opposed to keeping it if people feel otherwise.

### Ethash {#ethash}

> A [proof-of-work](#pow) algorithm for Ethereum 1.0.

Reviewer: Oops how did this slip by lol

> [Read more](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pow/mining-algorithms/ethash)

Reviewer: Thoughts on removing this entirely? Doesn't have to be now but I don't think it's necessary to keep it in the glossary forever...

Author: idk i think it's good to keep for now - people will still hear about it in various places and it's good to have a simple explanation and clarify that it's no longer used.

### fork {#fork}

> A change in protocol causing the creation of an alternative chain, or a temporal divergence into two potential block paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A change in protocol causing the creation of an alternative chain or a temporal divergence into two potential block paths.
```

  Smart Contract Libraries
</DocLink>

> ### light client {#light-client}

Reviewer: Good call. We use a couple of naming conventions across the site that we should fix eventually.

### mining {#mining}

> The process of verifying transactions and contract execution on the Ethereum blockchain in exchange for a reward in ether with the mining of every block. This was how Ethereumw as secured before it moved to [proof-of-stake](#pos).

Author: ```suggestion
The process of verifying transactions and contract execution on the Ethereum blockchain in exchange for a reward in ether with the mining of every block. This was how Ethereum was secured before it moved to [proof-of-stake](#pos).
```

> ### mining pool {#mining-pool}

Reviewer: Do we still need this in glossary?

Reviewer: I guess ignore these comments for now. Maybe as a post-merge clean-up, we can discuss the possibility of removing outdated lingo from the glossary.

Author: I think we should keep it. People will definitely be confused about what happened to mining and where it fits in Ethereum for a long time after TM

Reviewer: Sorry, my comment was specifically about mining pools, but your point. still seems valid.

### nonce {#nonce}

In cryptography, a value that can only be used once. An account nonce is a transaction counter in each account, which is used to prevent replay attacks.

<Divider />

## O {#section-o}

### ommer (uncle) block {#ommer}

> When a proof-of-work [miner](#miner) finds a valid [block](#block), another miner may have published a competing block which is added to the tip of the blockchain first. This valid, but stale, block can be included by newer blocks as _ommers_ and receive a partial block reward. The term "ommer" is the preferred gender-neutral term for the sibling of a parent block, but this is also sometimes referred to as an "uncle". This was relevant for Ethereum when it was a [proof-of-work](pow) network but ommers are not a feature of [proof-of-stake](#pos) Ethereum because precisely one block proposer is selected in each slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a proof-of-work [miner](#miner) finds a valid [block](#block), another miner may have published a competing block which is added to the tip of the blockchain first. This valid, but stale, block can be included by newer blocks as _ommers_ and receive a partial block reward. The term "ommer" is the preferred gender-neutral term for the sibling of a parent block, but this is also sometimes referred to as an "uncle". This was relevant for Ethereum when it was a [proof-of-work](pow) network, but ommers are not a feature of [proof-of-stake](#pos) Ethereum because precisely one block proposer is selected in each slot.
```

### shard / shard chain {#shard}

> Shard chains are discrete sections of the total blockchain that can subsets of validators cna be responsible for. This will offer increased transaction throughput for Ethereum and improve data availability for [layer 2](#layer-2) solutions like [optimistic rollups](#optimistic-rollups) and [ZK-rollups](#zk-rollups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shard chains are discrete sections of the total blockchain that can subsets of validators can be responsible for. This will offer increased transaction throughput for Ethereum and improve data availability for [layer 2](#layer-2) solutions like [optimistic rollups](#optimistic-rollups) and [ZK-rollups](#zk-rollups).
```

A computer programming term that describes an object of which only a single instance can exist.

### slasher {#slasher}

> A slasher is an entity that scans attestations searching for slashable offenses. Slashings are broadcasted to the network and the next block proposer adds the proof to the block. The block proposer then receives a reward for slashing the malicious validator.

Reviewer: [How topical](https://github.com/ethereum/ethereum-org-website/pull/7600#issuecomment-1230531301)

```suggestion
A slasher is an entity that scans attestations searching for slashable offenses. Slashings are broadcast to the network, and the next block proposer adds the proof to the block. The block proposer then receives a reward for slashing the malicious validator.
```

### supermajority {#supermajority}

Supermajority is the term given for an amount exceeding 2/3 (66%) of the total staked ether securing Ethereum. A supermajority vote is required for blocks to be [finalized](#finality) on the Beacon Chain.

### syncing {#syncing}

The process of downloading the entire latest version of a blockchain to a node.

### sync committee {#sync-committee}

> A sync committee is a randomly selected group of [validators](#validator) that refresh every ~27 hours. Their purpose is to add their signatures to valid block headers. Sync committees allow [light clients](#light-client) to keep track of the head of the blockchain without having to access the entire validator set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sync committee is a randomly selected group of [validators](#validator) that refresh every ~27 hours. Their purpose is to add their signatures to valid block headers. Sync committees allow [light clients](#light-client) to keep track of the head of the blockchain without needing to access the entire validator set.
```

### transaction fee {#transaction-fee}

> A fee you need to pay whenever you use the Ethereum network. Examples include sending funds from your [wallet](#wallet) or a [dapp](#dapp) interaction, like swapping tokens or buying a collectible. You can think of this like a service charge. This fee will change based on how busy the network is. This is because [validators](#validator), the people responsible for processing your transaction, are likely to prioritise transactions with higher fees – so congestion forces the price up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fee you need to pay whenever you use the Ethereum network. Examples include sending funds from your [wallet](#wallet) or a [dapp](#dapp) interaction, like swapping tokens or buying a collectable. You can think of this like a service charge. This fee will change based on how busy the network is. This is because [validators](#validator), the people responsible for processing your transaction, are likely to prioritise transactions with higher fees – so congestion forces the price up.
```
